{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red53\green53\blue53;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c27059\c27059\c27059;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Located on Bishop Labini Street, Metropole was the largest and newest cinema in Birkirkara, Malta. It was established in 1954 and stood as the only cinema with a panoramic screen and sliding roof. The theatre seated around 800 people and was split in two levels with a single balcony. Metropole was closed in 1970 and has since then been gutted from the inside and now serves as an electrical and plumbing warehouse.\
\
Mkejna bejn \uc0\u380 ew\u289  \u295 itan fuq Triq L-Isqof Labini, Metropole kienet l-akbar u l-i\u289 ded \u267 inema f\'92Birkirkara, Malta. Kienet mwaqqfa fis-sena 1954 u kienet mag\u295 rufa b\u295 ala l-unika \u267 inema skrijn panoramiku u b\'92saqaf li jinfeta\u295 . Is-sala kienet tpo\u289 \u289 i madwar 1,600 nies u kienet maqsuma f\'92\u380 ewg livelli b\'92gallarija kbira. Metropole ng\u295 alqet fis-sena 1970 u minn dak i\u380 -\u380 mien l-hawn kienet mqaxxra kompletament minn \u289 ewwa u issa isservi b\u295 ala ma\u295 \u380 en tat-tag\u295 mir elettriku.\
\
\'97\'97\
\
On Saturday, 17 April 1954, the Hon. Dr. T Caruana Demajo, Minister for Industry and Commerce cut a red and white ribbon stretched across the foyer of the theatre to mark the opening of \'93one of the Island\'92s most attractive and modern cinemas\'94, according to a reporter from The Times of Malta.\
\
The owner, Paul Baldacchino built the theatre on the site of what was once a courtyard with an open-air stage. Constructors had been working on the erection of the theatre for a whole year, since June 1953. \
\
\'97\'97\
\
The Metropole had two Gaumont-Kalee projectors with dual sound system, which could project 3-D and Cinemascope films. The interior of the theatre was decorated in moro-plastic and with fluorescent light designs and its walls were specially constructed for sound. \
\
The sliding roof, 80 feet long by 48 feet wide, ran on iron rails driven by a mechanical winch to be slid open during the warm summer evenings or to clear the thick air inside the theatre during performances. During the interval of the inaugural screening at the Metropole, the audience had the unusual experience of watching the cinema roof slide back over their heads. \
\
----- \
\
\
Mr Paul Baldacchino \
Mr J. Damato who was responsible for the construction of the Metropole in collaboration with the architect, Mr J Cumbo. \
\
\
\'93The owners spared no effort to build an up-to-date picture house with modern conveniences.\'94\
\
}